The institute is run by the Society of Franciscan brothers.It offers undergraduate, post-graduate and doctoral courses in Engineering

The SFIT campus is in IC Colony, Borivali, spread over 5 acres (20,000 m2) of land in the western suburbs of Mumbai. 

The institute has open access library, gymkhana with a table tennis room, carrom room and a chess room. There are facilities for outdoor games like throw ball, football, basketball, volleyball and badminton.

The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers:Formed by Ms Joanne Gomes in 2006, the IEEE branch was known as the IEEE Student Activity Center and was at the forefront of quality technical activities in SFIT

Computer Society of India Wing:This was formed in 2004 and in 2008–09, the SFIT chapter had 92 registrations and hence has been converted to a CSI chapter. CSI SFIT is now 63rd CSI Chapter in the country

IETE was formed in the year 2003.The IETE SFIT student chapter organized an IIT-B initiated self workshop and spoken tutorial on LINUX, PHP, PYTHON, LATEX and SCILAB software in February 2012. Online tests will be conducted following the spoken tutorials and certificates will be awarded by IIT-Bombay. The software workshop was open to students from all streams and years.

Information Technology Students Association ( ITSA ): ITSA was formed in march, 2012 under the guidance of Prof. Pramod Shanbhag with the objective to Inspire, Enable, Empower and Energize and provide state-of-art technological knowledge to the students of Department of information technology.

SFIT E-Cell:The Entrepreneurship Cell (E-Cell) of the institute was initiated in the year 2012. It promotes the institutes vision of creating entrepreneurial skills among student's as well as fosters and supports student's who wish to take their idea's to the Next Level.Currently the Entrepreneurship Cell is being guided and mentored by Dr.Prachi Raut.

SFIT Social Responsibility Cell:The Social Responsibility Cell of the institute was founded in year 2015 with an aim to expand its social welfare activities which were previously conducted under the 'Angels Club'. The cell is headed by Mr. Paul Fernandes.

National Service Scheme(NSS) Unit:The SFIT NSS unit was established in the year 2015 with the aim to create awareness among our students on social responsibilities, ethical values, professional ethics, protection of environment and ecosystems and also to undertake social service activities mainly for the economically backward and marginalized communities.

Mechanical Engineering Student Association(MESA):The Mechanical Engineering Student Association was established with the help of the Mr. Sunil Pansare (Head of Department, Mechanical Engineering), the respective faculty members and students. It was established with a vision to help core students with extra curricular activities and also to promote core concepts.MESA also has two technical teams namely SFIT Team Tejas and Gatee SFIT which compete in competition related to for Aero-modelling and Go-Kart.